README.md, before:

# ggst-api-rs

An async library for interfacing with the replay REST API of Guilty Gear Strive

Use the get_replays function to collect the latest replays from the AWS servers.
A maximum of 100 pages can be queried at a time with up to 127 replays per page.
Note that it is not guaranteed that a page is full since duplicates are removed and this may result in less than the expected number.
```rust
pub async fn get_replays(
    context: &Context,
    pages: usize,
    replays_per_page: usize,
    query_parameters: QueryParameters,
) -> Result<(impl Iterator<Item = Match>, impl Iterator<Item = ParseError>)>
```

## Example

This example fetches 100 pages of at most 127 replays each between floor 7 and celestial where Sol
is present.
It then prints the meta data for all replays collected as well as report any parsing errors.

```rust
use ggst_api::*;
let (replays, parsing_errors) = get_replays(
    &Context::default(),
    100,
    127,
    QueryParameters::default()
        .min_floor(Floor::F7)
        .max_floor(Floor::Celestial)
        .character(Character::Sol)
    ).await.unwrap();
println!("Replays:");
replays.for_all(|r| println!("{}", r));
println!("Errors:");
parsing_errors.for_all(|e| println!("{}", e));
```

## Structs

The main two structs are `Match` and `Player` with the following interfaces.
They implement common traits such as `Eq`, `Hash`, `Clone`, `Display` etc.
The `Eq` implementation for `Player` ignores the name value as a user can change their nickname all the time while their id stays the same.

```rust
pub struct Match;
impl Match {
    pub fn floor(&self) -> Floor;
    pub fn timestamp(&self) -> &DateTime<Utc>;
    pub fn players(&self) -> (&Player, &Player);
    pub fn winner(&self) -> &Player;
    pub fn loser(&self) -> &Player;
}

pub struct Player;
impl Player {
    pub fn id(&self) -> u64;
    pub fn name(&self) -> &str;
    pub fn character(&self) -> Character;
}
```

## How does the API work?

To collect replays a POST request has to be made to https://ggst-game.guiltygear.com/api/catalog/get_replay.
The body should be of the content type `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` and contain a single entry with the key data.
Refer to https://github.com/optix2000/totsugeki/issues/35#issuecomment-922516535 for more information about the specific encoding used here.

```
data="9295B2323131303237313133313233303038333834AD3631613565643466343631633202A5302E302E38039401CC{page_index_hex}{replays_per_page_hex}9AFF00{min_floor_hex}{max_floor_hex}90FFFF000001"
```

The response consists of raw bytes, mainly invalid unicode.
Every page begins with a header of about ~60 bytes which is not needed.

This is the structure of the response for each replay on a page:

```
{garbage[..]}{floor[1]}{p1_char[1]}{p2_char[1]}\x95\xb2{p1_id[18]}\xa_{p1_name[..]}\xb1{p1_steam_id?[..]}\xaf{p1_online_id[..]}\x07\x95\xb2{p2_id[18]}\xa_{p2_name[..]}\xb1{p2_steam_id?[..]}\xaf{p2_online_id[..]}\t{winner[1]}\xb3{timestamp[19]}\x01\x00\x00\x00
```

The brackets indicate the length in bytes of the field.
Since after every timestamp there is the '\x01\x00\x00\x00' pattern we can split a page on that sequence.
Then we use the '\x96\xb2' byte sequence to split each match into three sections.

## Why does it return an error?
Sometimes the response is malformed and a replay cannot be parsed.
Usually this happens because one of the two usernames in a match uses unicode characters that contain some of the byte sequences used to split the response.
If this happens the error message will show the raw bytes, please open an issue and show the data that cannot be parsed.

## Features

Enable the serde feature for serialization support.
```toml
[dependencies]
ggst-api = { path = "./ggst-api", features = ["serde"] }
```

Commit message:

fix: Handle communication with API with a real messagepack encoder/decoder (#5)
* test: Add a parser test on a replay response

* feat: Get the messagepack parser to parity

* test: Add a test which correctly parses a replay that was lost before

* refactor: Use proper types in the messagepack structs when possible

* refactor: Use an explicit messagepack struct for the query

Messagepack is used in the input as well so we can be a bit more
explicit about it here as well.

This changes the query slightly as the crate used here manages to pack
`127` into a single byte instead of adding a leading `uint8` header but
the query is otherwise identical.

* refactor: Remove the old parser

* refactor: Restore how the serde feature works

* docs: Update the readme to explain the encoding

* refactor: Increase the integer size of unknown fields

* test: Add a request decoding test

Can be useful in figuring out what the fields mean

* feat: Deduce what the player search field is

* feat: Deduce best bout parameter

* feat: Figure views, best_bout and likes response fields

* refactor: Use Floor in the messagepack

* fix: BestBout field was not correct

* feat: Deduce the player_id field

README.md, after:

# ggst-api-rs

An async library for interfacing with the replay REST API of Guilty Gear Strive

Use the get_replays function to collect the latest replays from the AWS servers.
A maximum of 100 pages can be queried at a time with up to 127 replays per page.
Note that it is not guaranteed that a page is full since duplicates are removed and this may result in less than the expected number.
```rust
pub async fn get_replays(
    context: &Context,
    pages: usize,
    replays_per_page: usize,
    query_parameters: QueryParameters,
) -> Result<(impl Iterator<Item = Match>, impl Iterator<Item = ParseError>)>
```

## Example

This example fetches 100 pages of at most 127 replays each between floor 7 and celestial where Sol
is present.
It then prints the meta data for all replays collected as well as report any parsing errors.

```rust
use ggst_api::*;
let (replays, parsing_errors) = get_replays(
    &Context::default(),
    100,
    127,
    QueryParameters::default()
        .min_floor(Floor::F7)
        .max_floor(Floor::Celestial)
        .character(Character::Sol)
    ).await.unwrap();
println!("Replays:");
replays.for_all(|r| println!("{}", r));
println!("Errors:");
parsing_errors.for_all(|e| println!("{}", e));
```

## Structs

The main two structs are `Match` and `Player` with the following interfaces.
They implement common traits such as `Eq`, `Hash`, `Clone`, `Display` etc.
The `Eq` implementation for `Player` ignores the name value as a user can change their nickname all the time while their id stays the same.

```rust
pub struct Match;
impl Match {
    pub fn floor(&self) -> Floor;
    pub fn timestamp(&self) -> &DateTime<Utc>;
    pub fn players(&self) -> (&Player, &Player);
    pub fn winner(&self) -> &Player;
    pub fn loser(&self) -> &Player;
}

pub struct Player;
impl Player {
    pub fn id(&self) -> u64;
    pub fn name(&self) -> &str;
    pub fn character(&self) -> Character;
}
```

## How does the API work?

To collect replays a POST request has to be made to https://ggst-game.guiltygear.com/api/catalog/get_replay.
The body should be of the content type `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` and contain a single entry with the key data which is
hex encoded [messagepack](https://msgpack.org/). The response is plain messagepack. Rust types are defined for both the request and response
with all know fields having readable names.

## Why does it return an error?
Sometimes the response is malformed and a replay cannot be parsed.
Usually this happens because one of the two usernames in a match uses unicode characters that contain some of the byte sequences used to split the response.
If this happens the error message will show the raw bytes, please open an issue and show the data that cannot be parsed.

## Features

Enable the serde feature for serialization support.
```toml
[dependencies]
ggst-api = { path = "./ggst-api", features = ["serde"] }
```
